JUDY WOODRUFF: And in the day's
other news,
the chief justice of Alabama's
highest court
urged local officials to deny
marriage licenses
to same-sex couples. That's
despite the U.S.
Supreme Court's decision in June
to legalize
gay marriage nationwide.
State Chief Justice Roy Moore
said the Supreme
Court decision is at odds with
his court's
earlier rulings and is causing
-- quote -- "confusion
and uncertainty." Moore stopped
short of directly
ordering Alabama officials not
to issue licenses.
GWEN IFILL: For the 62nd time,
the Republican-led
House has voted to repeal
President Obama's
health care law. But this time,
it's going
all the way to his desk. House
Speaker Paul
Ryan conceded Congress won't be
able to override
a promised veto, but he said
it's worth the
effort anyway.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We are confronting the president
with the
hard, honest truth: Obamacare
doesn't work.
Higher premiums and fewer
choices and restricted
access, these are not signs of
success. Obamacare
is not successful. They are
signs of failure,
and the American people deserve
better.
GWEN IFILL: The Senate already
passed the
repeal measure, which also cuts
funding for
Planned Parenthood. But
Massachusetts Congressman
Jim McGovern and other Democrats
said it's
wrong-headed and a waste of
time.
REP. JIM MCGOVERN (D),
Massachusetts: I can't
understand how you can get up
every morning
and go to work and that's your
mission, to
make it more difficult for
people in this
country, to throw 22 million
people off the
health insurance rolls, to make
it more difficult
for vulnerable women to get
preventative care
at Planned Parenthood. That's
the mission.
That's how we're beginning this
new year.
GWEN IFILL: The bill would
eliminate the requirement
that most people obtain health
coverage, and
it would curb the expansion of
Medicaid, as
well as the taxes imposed to pay
for the law.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The man who
bought the rifles
used in the San Bernardino
shootings pleaded
not guilty today in a federal
court in California.
Enrique Marquez is accused of
conspiring to
aid terrorists, among other
charges. His friend
Syed Farook and Farook's wife,
Tashfeen Malik,
shot 14 people to death at a
holiday party
in December. Marquez goes on
trial next month.
GWEN IFILL: There's evidence
today that years
of drug violence in Mexico has
actually cut
life expectancy in the last
decade. Research
in the journal "Health Affairs"
finds the
projected life span of Mexican
men fell by
more than seven months between
2005 and 2010;
50,000 people died during that
period in Mexico's
war with drug cartels.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Iraq is offering
to mediate
the diplomatic dispute between
Saudi Arabia
and Iran. The Saudis' Sunni
regime cut off
relations with Shiite Iran last
weekend, after
attacks on Saudi diplomatic
sites in Tehran
and elsewhere. That followed
Riyadh's execution
of a top Shiite cleric.
In Tehran today, Iraq's foreign
minister,
Ibrahim Al-Jaafari, met with his
Iranian counterpart
and talked of finding a way to
restore calm.
IBRAHIM AL-JAAFARI, Iraqi
Foreign Minister
(through translator): Iraq is at
the heart
of the region, and we have
sought to use our
broad relations with Arab
countries and other
countries so that Iraq can play
its role and
alleviate tensions between Iran
and Saudi
Arabia. We have been active from
the early
moments to prevent a disaster
from happening
that could affect the entire
region.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Iraq's Shiite-led
government
has relied on Iran for help
fighting Islamic
State forces. Separately today,
the White
House said President Obama spoke
by phone
with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider
al-Abadi
on their -- quote -- "mutual
concern" about
the situation.
GWEN IFILL: Germany now says a
record 1.1
million people sought asylum
there last year.
About two-thirds of the migrants
came from
Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq.
As the numbers came out, German
Chancellor
Angela Merkel told reporters --
quote -- "It
is very important that we
achieve both a noticeable
reduction in the flow of
refugees and maintain
open borders inside Europe."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, Republican
presidential candidate Ted Cruz
dismissed
questions from rival Donald
Trump about his
being born in Canada. The Texas
senator said
it's settled law that having at
least one
American parent makes you a U.S.
citizen,
even if you are born abroad.
Cruz's mother
is American, his father Cuban.
GWEN IFILL: A Texas grand jury
has indicted
a state trooper in the Sandra
Bland case,
the woman who died in jail after
a traffic
stop in July. Brian Encinia will
face misdemeanor
county of perjury for allegedly
lying about
how he removed Bland from her
car. The grand
jury declined to charge anyone
with Bland's
death.
A major federal assessment finds
a leading
class of insecticides can be
harmful to honeybees
in some crops. The Environmental
Protection
Agency says neonicotinoids pose
a significant
risk to honeybees on cotton and
citrus crops,
but not on corn and berries.
Today's report
is the first of four planned by
the EPA as
it decides whether to ban the
insecticide.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the bears
were back in
charge today on Wall Street
after oil prices
plunged again and worries built
about China's
slowdown, as well as North
Korea's weapons
test. The Dow Jones industrial
average lost
252 points to close at 16906.
The Nasdaq fell
55, and the S&P 500 dropped 26.